simss -- Self-Stabilizing Algorithm Simulator
=============================================

This simulator is implemented in java by using GraphStream library.

Features
--------

  * Generates various graphs
  * Supports Ding-Wang-Srimani's self-stabilizing algorithm for minimal weakly connected dominating sets
  * Supports randomized self-stabilizing algorithm for minimal weakly connected dominating sets
  * GUI interface to show the graph and interact with it

License
-------

Copyright 2016 Yunhui Fu <yhfudev@gmail.com>
License: GPL v3.0 or later


Usage
-----
Assume you create .jar file in sub-folder out.
For example, in Eclipse, you can export the project from the menu "File" -- "Export ..." -- "Runnalbe JAR file".

### Help

    java -jar out/simss.jar -h
    usage: simss <options>
     -a <arg>   the algorithm name, ding or rand
     -d <arg>   (rand) the node degree (max)
     -f         (rand) if the degree value is fix or not
     -g <arg>   the graph generator algorithm name: fan1l, fan2l, rand, doro,
                flower, watt, lobster
     -h         print this message
     -i <arg>   the input file name
     -l <arg>   the trace log file name
     -n <arg>   the number of nodes
     -o <arg>   the attachable output cvs file name
     -p <arg>   (watt) the probability of beta
     -s <arg>   save the graph
     -u         if heuristic on
     -y <arg>   show the input file with specified delay (ms)

### Generate the graph and store it to a file

    java -jar simss.jar -g rand -n 10002 -d 5 -l selfstab-rand-m5-10002-raw.dgs -o results.csv
    cat selfstab-rand-m5-10002-raw.dgs | grep -v "cn " > selfstab-rand-m5-10002.dgs

It will call the class ConnectionGenerator to generate a connected graph of size 10002 nodes,
and the degree of each node is up to 5;
The graph is stored in file selfstab-rand-m5-10002-raw.dgs, which is striped and save to selfstab-rand-m5-10002.dgs (the second line);
A 
self-stabilizing algorithm for minimal weakly connected dominating sets
is run on the graph and the results is verified to make sure everything is correct.


### Run a predefined self-stabilizing algorithm on a graph input file

    java -jar simss.jar -a rand -i selfstab-rand-m5-10002.dgs -o rand-m5-rand.dat


### Run a predefined self-stabilizing algorithm on a graph input file and also show the GUI

    java -jar simss.jar -a rand -i selfstab-rand-m5-10002.dgs -o rand-m5-rand.dat -y 10


### The benchmark script run.sh

User can use the script run.sh to test the performance of the self-stabilizing algorithms and get a summary reports in a pdf generated by latex file.
The user need prepare the graph data files, and there're examples in the script begin with "generating data".
The user should active the block by changing

    if [ 0 = 1 ]; then

to

    if [ 1 = 1 ]; then

The graphs tested inlucdes fan, doto, and random connected graph.
For the graph rand-f5, rand-fp3, rand-fp10, the user need to check if it's generated correctly.

After generating the graph, user can de-active the "generating data" block to avoid duplicate work.

A pdf file all.pdf will be created once the script runs smoothly, and the convergence steps and the size of dominating set are compared between the self-stabilizing algorithms.
